Battery Applet with Monitoring and Shutdown

Features

This is a simple applet I have written for my laptop because I have recently had a couple of times where I have missed the notifications about low battery. The latest version of Cinnamon also seems to have lost the setting to specify the action when the battery is critical. In any case there is no easy way to set the 'shutdown' level in Mint 18 Sarah/Cinnamon 3.0 . The applet draws on my code for the NUMA (Network Utilisation Monitoring and Alert) Applet so much of the code is well developed and tested.

This applet allows one to set a level at which the machine starts to shutdown (suspend to memory as currently set up) with plenty of warning - the shutdown level is 2/3 of the initial alert level.

The applet normally shows the percentage charge on a coloured background which is: 

   Green when above the alert level (set currently to 1.5 times the 'shutdown' level.)
   Orange between the warning and shutdown level
   Red and flashing at and below the Shutdown level (even when charging).

When the battery is Discharging the warning and shutdown regions have a much larger flashing orange or red message in the applet which is difficult to miss. 

   When the Alert level is reached a modal alert is put up which can not be missed as no input can be made until it is cleared.
   When the shutdown level is reached a normal alert box is put up with options of an immediate suspend or cancel - if nothing is done it suspends 30 seconds latter. If cancelled (or the machine is turned back on without the battery being on charge) the alert and shutdown sequence is restarted after the battery has dropped another 1%.

The alert level can be set to between 10% and 40% of full by a slider on the left click menu or in the configuration screen. The refresh rate can also be set in the configuration screen. 

The intention is to allow the possibility of leaving suspend with enough battery to close programs and shut down after powering up from suspend without a charger after an accidental unattended suspend. It is suggested that the 'shutdown level' is set to about 10% to allow time. Do not forget that the battery still drains although slowly during suspend.

The right click menu gives access to some useful utilities as well as the change log and this help file.

Many laptops do not implement a suspend well. The suspend which is in use is a Suspend to Memory which is better supported than Hibernate (suspend to disk) but it does use power a little power when in that mode so it is still possible to loose work if the level is set too low or it is left too long. It is sensible to make sure the laptop does suspend reliably before trusting too this applet to save work. The code for suspending is different in Mint 18 to earlier versions. The script calls both methods which should not cause problems but you can comment out the redundant one if you want in suspendScript.

The Applet is designed to work with Mint 17 and higher and Cinnamon 2.0 and higher but currently most of the testing has been with Mint 18. It is currently offered at a beta (development) level. Feedback is welcome.

Requirements:

    Cinnamon Version 1.8 or higher as it make comprehensive use of the new Cinnamon Settings Interface for Applets and Desklets.
    
    For full facilities including notifications and audible alerts the zenity sox and libsox-fmt-mp3 libraries must be installed. They can be installed with the terminal command:

        sudo apt-get install zenity sox libsox-fmt-mp3

    or by the Synaptic Package Manager.

Manual Installation:

    Download
    Unzip and extract folder batterymonitor@pdcurtis to ~/.local/share/cinnamon/applets/
    Install any additional programs required.
    Enable the applet in Cinnamon Settings -> Applets
    You can also access the Settings Screen from Cinnamon Settings -> Applets

